First, Mr. Hill, tell us something about your
early life, including the names of your parents,
the dates and places of their birth and death,
where they were born, where you were born, I mean,
and the date of your birth, and the schools you
attended before you came to Texas A&M. Well, my
father's name was Fielding Hill, and my mother's
name was Minta, M-I-N-T-A.
Both of my parents died in Dallas in the Terrell,
T-E-R-R-I-L-L, nursing home. My father was 88
years, 12 months, and nine days. I mean, nine
months and 12 days. And my mother was 93 years and
one week.
Why not tell him where you were born? And I was born
at... at Wills Point, Texas, which is 50 miles.
Well, it's known as Wills Point. Do you remember
where your parents were born? Yes, my mother was
born in Mississippi. My
father was born where? Oh, no. Where was he born?
Oh, baby.
What are you telling them? I don't remember. I'm
sure my father was born in I
think Alabama. Alabama. And I know my mother was
born in Mississippi. Did you go to school in Wills
Point? Yes, I finished high school in Wills Point.
You went as many grades as they had there. Yes, 12.
12 grades. In 1917, about the first of June, of
course, and then that fall I went to A&M. What type
of business was your father in? We farmed about 400
acres with hired labor, which was rather unusual
at that time. and then he was in the cotton seed and
grain business. Planting seed, he, we, well
that's what I spent my time as a young boy from the
time I was eight years old on taking care of the farm
with like cotton choppers and the pickers and I
never could pick cotton but I could haul the cotton
to the gin and the way and things like that. But I
just, I just, my hands, I could get it in my hand, but
I couldn't get it in my sack. And so he said, son, you
just don't know how to pick cotton. You don't have
to pick cotton. But you were kind of a supervisor.
Right. I was a supervisor. And he, uh, we, it became
necessary later on that we, you know, the, so many,
uh, of states wouldn't let our cottonseed come in
like Arkansas wouldn't let them come in on account
of the
bow weevil. So we made a drum type machine where the
cottonseed went in and spilled over and went
through a heat process of certain degrees. And it
was state approved and also approved by the other
states like We couldn't go into Oklahoma, we
couldn't go into Louisiana, and we couldn't go
into Arkansas. But Arkansas was our main source.
That's where we sold most of the cotton seed. And
like we'd give $60 a ton for the seed, then we'd
treat them and sack them. And they were selected,
of course. And while this process was going on, all
the little seed would drop out. It would just save
them. what you call culling it, culling it and
heeding it and killing the wheels. So you bought
the seed then from the farmer. Your father bought
the seed. Yes, we kept our own seed. We raised quite
a few. But then we would sell to a farmer, and then we
would buy from him that fall. Buy the seed back. So
you kept the same variety. Right. Rowden was it.
R-O-W-D-E-N was the name of the seed. You mixed
varieties in. No, it was just the mebane and half
and half and rowding were the three signs. And the
mebane and the other one were short staple. The
rowding was a long staple cotton. They got up to
$0.04 to $0.05 premium on the long staple. Most of
the other was 15, 16, which we'd get out here, and we
would go one and an eighth and stuff like that with
the rowding. And so then you would process the seed
and sell it wherever there was a market for it. Yes.
My father would leave, and he'd probably get come
back. He'd be gone a week and come back with orders
for maybe six or seven core load, which a core load
is considered 1,000 bushels or 1,050 bushels. And
then you also, did you raise grain on your farm too?
Oh, yes. What kind of grain? Wheat. Wheat. Yes.
Wheat and oats. And just oats to feed our stock,
that was a prominent feed. Okay, what factors
influenced you to choose Texas A&M? Well, of
course, I had an older brother, Perch Hill, you
know, and the other one, the three of the boys. In
fact, the four of them, four boys, all went to A&M.
So you were influenced by your older brother.
Yeah, and another thing that influenced me was
Leon Gilmore, which was later my brother-in-law,
was a center on the 1917 team. You know, 270 points
to opponents, nothing. And of course, I had room
with him. And Jack Finney, another boy from Willis
Point who became a architect and taught at A&M for
quite some years. They were the men, too, that I
wanted to be with. OK. What procedures did you go
through to enter school? Did you have to send your
grades in advance, or did you just carry your
transcript or record? No, we sent them in advance.
And did you get a letter then from the school saying
you were accepted? Well, I really don't know that
or whether Leon, my brother-in-law, handled it or
I know what we did, we'd take money, a check with us,
to pay our tuition as we entered. So you paid the
tuition for what, one semester? No, no, no. The
whole year? The whole year. And what was your first
reaction? Of course, having had a brother there,
you were somewhat familiar to the school. Well, it
was rather unusual. We got in there in the morning
about, oh, 2.30. And at that time, we were assigned
to Miller, down the basement, right on the side
next to where the old dining hall used to be. I don't
think it's there now, is it? Well, Sbisa. Yeah,
Sbisa's still there. I don't believe that is one,
no, that's ten. Anyhow. At the end of Military
Walk? Yeah. Yeah, that's Spesa. Yeah. Because the
old mess hall burned in 13, I believe, and Spesa was
constructed the following year, so. Well, we were
right near it, and to go in a strange place like that
with no lights and sleep on just a mattress with no
pillow, It's not a very comfortable start, I'll
say that. No, I wouldn't think so. You say you were
saying, was there somebody there to meet the train
and tell you where to go then? Well, see, I was with
Leon. That was his sophomore year. Okay, he was a
sophomore. And Jack and I were freshmen. So he kind
of took you in hand. He took me in hand in Dallas and
all, everything. We had to go to Dallas and wait on
the train. We went shopping, bought shoes, and
went, bought supplies that we'd need. Then did you
register to the day after you got there then? I
really don't know whether it'd be the next day or, I
would think the next day. Sometime fairly soon
anyway. I think the next day. Did you have any
choice about military company to which you were
assigned? Oh, no. You were assigned. Which one did
you enter? Company H, and I had a, Coxy Evans was our
captain from Fort Worth, which one of the, he was
killed in the service. Well, I think one of the
finest men I ever knew in my life. He was a leader and
a fine man. Where was Company H housed then? In
Millner. So you spent the first night in Millner.
Did you stay in the basement after you were
registered, or did you have a room elsewhere? No,
no. I think we got that same room. See, since my
brother-in-law had been there a year, he knew the
ropes, and I think he'd had the room the year
before. And then you roomed with him even though he
was a sophomore. Right. Yeah, you could room with
seniors or anyone at two. that if he wanted for a
roommate, you could arrange it. I see. Were you
sort of his man then? Did you do some chores for him
from time to time? No, he was pretty busy with his
studies and football and everything, and I didn't
see too much of him except at night. But on Saturday
night, the hazing was real bad at A&M at that time.
In fact, it was a little bit too bad. Here it is, E.B.
Your mother was burned in Alabama but was reared on
a plantation in northern Mississippi. Melna
Rutledge came to Texas with her family in 1883.
Did you stay in Milner all four years? No, I didn't
finish. You didn't finish? No. I left the next
October. I was there the first year and then
left... See, my brother died. You were there for
17, 18. Yeah, yes. And then went back. And then my
father, we were quarantined. And my father wired
me, come home immediately. And we had all had the
flu. In fact, for three weeks, seven boys a day died
in A&M. And I was in Leggett at that time in an inner
court there, you know, the courtyard. There's
three freshmen right across from me and all died
and never had one dose of medicine or a doctor ever
saw them. And I had to lie there on my bed. I couldn't
get out. And I had to lie and listen to those boys
scream and died right there. So the second year you
went back, and that's when you had the flu epidemic
in the 1819s. Right. That's during the war. That's
when everybody was in the SATC. Yes. But see, I was
young enough. I didn't have to join. You didn't
join the SATC. No, no. You went to regular classes
in the second year? Yeah, but I took the military
training and everything. In fact, I didn't have to
do anything that I didn't want to do in the
military. Your daddy was born in Texas. I knew he
was. This is that right up on there, 60th.
I thought he was a native Texan. Yeah, I'm sorry. He
was in... Panola County, that's down out of
Carthage, between Carthage and the Shreveport
line. And they owned all that property down there,
and he didn't want it. He sold it, and that's where
all the gas wells, oh, they're the... But he did
good. He made us a good living. This, talking about
history, that is real interesting. That tells
about the marriage of his mother and father. This
was a... 60th wedding anniversary party we had for
them years ago. They were too ill to have their
party at the 50th. We had to wait until we were
married 60 to have them. Let me ask you, you left the
school then in October of 18. Yes. Did you ever
return then? No. No. Okay. What had you planned as
your major? What had you planned to study when you
came to A&M? Oh, I wanted to be a veterinary
surgeon. And since you...
Did you ultimately become a veterinary surgeon
then? Only in practice. I was in the contractor
business. I owned 60 head of mules. Mm-hmm. OK,
skipping back, you mentioned when you arrived
there, you were first assigned to Milner. And then
the second year, the part that you were there, you
stayed in Leggett for a while. The second year. The
second year, you were in Leggett for a couple
months. Right, in a room with a boat. a boy by the
name of Malcolm Broadfoot from Longview, Texas.
And he mixed all the syrups for Casey at the Y. And
when this flu epidemic came on, he had a key so he
could make, he became ill first. So he gave me the
key and I'd go get him grapes and milk, oh, malted
milks. That's what we lived on for two weeks. And
then he was sick about a week, and I took care of him.
Then I became sick, and he took care of me. And
that's the only way we survived. So you could,
while one of you was sick, the other was well.
Right. At least well enough to take care of the
other. Right. And then you went, your father
called you home because of a sickness in the
family. Yes, yes. How would you describe the life
in the dormitory as you remember it? Well, my life
was, I only had one occasion. that I felt I was
mistreated. There was a
Mexican from Laredo that, you know, when they walk
in the mess hall, you all stand up until everyone's
in, and they be seated. And I had a terrific
headache. And I was leaning over my chair like
this, you know, and he came up with his knee. And he
hit and kicked me with his knee much, much too hard.
And he hurt me. And my brother-in-law saw it. And he
beat the stepping out of him. That's the only time
when I was mistreated. Now, one time on Saturday
night, I hadn't been there over, say, a couple of
three weeks. But I had some friends that told me on
Saturday night, stick tight. Just don't get out
and run around. You'll get in trouble. They got me
in one of the downstairs in the area, five of them,
and they had those Sam Brown belts, and they made me
stand on the table and hold my ankles, and they
marched around me, and they hit me much too hard.
But if you turn loose your ankles, they start over.
So the second round, there was a window open over
there, and I hit that window, and they never did get
me again because on Saturday night, Trim Rigney,
was in 104, the fourth floor up there. I mean, 401.
I'm sorry, I said it backwards. And Saturday
night, the minute it got dark, I was up there
shining his boots, and they never touched me. He
took me back to my room and closed that door, and
they never got me again. So that was a regular
Saturday night occurrence and you shined this
other man's boots. Yeah, and another thing that I
didn't approve of at all, those inner courts, they
would take toilet paper and wet it, especially a
half a roll, and then they'd stand in this window up
there and somebody going by down like on the second
floor or the first floor, they'd hit them in the
side of the head with that wet toilet paper and it
hurt some boys real bad. But overall, it was only
your friends that hazed you, unless you'd get in
one of those sessions like I was telling you about,
and they had quite a few of those. But anyone would
be stupid to get in them. You don't want to be that
stupid. Get with one of your buddies. So the man
whose boots you shined, Trig? Trim Rigney. Trim
Rigney. From Leonard, Texas, and he played
shortstop for the Detroit Tigers. Was he a senior
then? He was a senior then, yes. And he was a, oh, he
was a colonel, lieutenant colonel, very
high-ranking officer.
So it was to the freshman's advantage then to have
a, An upperclassman. If you don't have one, you're
in trouble.
How was the food like in the mess hall? Or what was it
like, I should say? It was real good. Very good.
Plentiful. And like there would be an
upperclassman, probably a captain or something
at the end of the table. Then there'd be There's
14 people at the table. And this one had, the little
fish was They had these two inside. There was an
upperclassman at the end, an upperclassman at
this corner, and probably an upperclassman here.
But the poor little old fish, here they were down in
the middle. And what's left, that's what they got.
But if you have a table with a good bunch of people,
or you could wait and get seconds. But in the
morning, we'd have hotcakes. And of course,
they'd get the first ones, which would be A little
better, and then eggs, and they fed us good, ample.
You wouldn't complain about the food.
Other than the,
if you can call it a privilege of hazing the
freshmen, did the upperclassmen have additional
privileges? Did they have more freedom to move
about than the fish did? Oh, yeah, pretty much.
What sorts of things could they do? Well, the
freshmen, they couldn't go many places, you know
what I mean? They were restricted from, well, like
the Y. The Y would be full of upper freshmen. There
wouldn't be any room for the fish. And all the pool
tables would be busy with upperclassmen. The fish
wouldn't have a chance to play. In other words, if
you could get you an upperclassman, a friend, to
get you in with them and let you play, fine.
Otherwise, you don't play. I imagine there were
not a whole lot of pool tables for a whole bunch of
boys. No, there wasn't. They were down in the
basement. Why? But we got along real good. There's
plenty to do. What type of things did you do for
recreation and entertainment? Well, we talked
mostly, and... I had quite a few friends from out of
the country, one especially from Lima, Peru. And
he was a very unusual boy. And then I had a boy that
his roommate was a boy by the name of Clegg from San
Angelo. And I spent some time with them. In fact, we
went to Lima, Peru. This boy's father was a civil
engineer, and he borrowed all the money from the
United States in 1913 to build the railroads in
Peru. And when we got to Peru, the first thing I did,
I went to the hotel and I got the assistant manager
and told him that I would, if possible, I would like
to contact this friend. And he went to quite some a
bit of trouble and found out, yes, he is a civil
engineer and worked for a railroad and lives in
Lima. And we can contact him. And the next morning
he came to me and said, I contacted him. Two months
ago, he died with a heart attack. So this was
sometime after you had known him as a student. This
was two or three years ago. Two or three years ago.
And this was, I'm talking about 1917, 18. Were
there a goodly number of Latin American students
on campus? Many, many. From all the countries. In
other words, the first time I ever saw soccer, they
played, that's what they played, played soccer
all the time. Quiet athletes, good ones. Did they
just kind of have a pickup game of soccer, or did
they have an organized? No, no, no, no, no, just out
on a football field or a drill field, and they'd
just say like 15 or 20 of them, 25 would get
together, and they'd have a deal. It was not an
intramural type? No, no, no, no, there wasn't
enough of them for that, what I mean is. But you did
have a lot of other intramural activities, I take
it. Oh, yes. Did you participate in any? Yes. I
played on the fish football team, and I weighed
about 150 pounds, and I played the end. The big old
boy weighed about 210, came around, and hit that
knee, and I didn't play anymore. I was too little.
Even then, you were too little. Too small. Today,
if you're 150, they don't even think about
you. Do you remember any of the other things? Did
you ever have any movies on campus? I don't
remember. I don't think so.
We were busy. They kept us busy. See, in 1917, we had
extended drill. We drilled. You'd get up at 6
o'clock and go to Reveille, and you'd go to
breakfast, and then you'd go to studies, and then
when you're not in classes, you're out on that
drill field. When you go into extended drill, uh
drill but uh about how much of the time how much per
day or per week would you say you drilled well we we
had two hours every afternoon regular and then we
had they called other times and back in 1918 while
there was much worse but standing at attention
there with all the The boys were sick and
everything, and they'd fall out just like flies.
Well, the man behind them was always supposed to
take care of the man. And then they had extra men
behind, you know, like a squadron, to take care of a
man in the rear ranks that fell out. And out in that
hot sun and everything, they fell out. I mean,
plenty of them. This would be if you were lining up
to march to meals or something? Yeah, to march to
meals and to drill. And during drill, you had a lot
of people. You know, and you had to parade, you
know, the inspection, you know. And like the first
company to go there, they might stand 20 minutes
before they're inspected. And standing out there
in the hot sun, you know, in the afternoon is pretty
rough, especially when you have the flu. You had a
daily inspection of the? Well, I wouldn't say
daily, but quite often, you know, because it, and
the bad thing about then, your best buddies, they
were leaving every day, you know, going into
service. In fact, it got down to where there was
very few seniors on the, just very few. Now, did
some of them leave during the year of 1718, or was it
mostly the 1819 when the students were leaving?
Most of them, no, some of them left in 17, 18, but
most of them, of course, early, well, they didn't
come back to school in 18, and a lot of them left in
18.
So you had virtually a senior-less school there
for a while. Right, in 18.
Did you have any favorite instructors During the
time that you were there. I had one of the nicest
men, and he's an English teacher, and he was
crippled. One leg was, I'd say, an inch and a half
shorter than the other. His name was Biddle, and I
think he helped me more. He was like a father to me.
When I had a problem, I'd go to him, and he always
listened and was real sweet to me. Any other ones
that you were particularly fond of? Yes, because I
can't call too many names. But we had retired army
officers, you know, as
watchmen, you know. And we had to walk a post, you
know, with a gun and everything. And they assigned
you your position, you know, and took care of it and
everything. But what did we call them? I'm trying
to think. But anyhow, they had retired, like,
colonels and... These were people who worked out
of the commandant's office? Yes. You say you
walked a post. Did you walk a post just in the
dormitory, or did you walk posts outside, too? No,
I never... Just in the dormitory.
And the retired military people who assigned you
your posts...
Did they do anything in the way of instructing you
to in military science? Oh, yes, yes. They told you
how to go down and turn and how often to go around.
Yes, they taught you how to handle your gun to start
with.
I gather the gun you carried on when you were on...
post was not loaded? Oh, no, no, no. Did you ever
have occasion to fire your gun? I mean, did you ever
go to target practice or anything of that nature?
No. Just marching, drilling? No, I don't think I
ever had a shell the whole time I was there. I didn't
want one. Never had occasion to shoot the light out
over Old Main, over the Main building? No. Was that
a practice while you were there? No. There was a
period when it was a very popular thing to do. When I
was there, they better not. They were pretty rough
on us. They were strict. They shoot out what they
call Prexy's Moon, the light on top of what was then
the new main building.
Not in our time. Not in your time, no. I suppose that
was later when they had more students and less
opportunity to control them completely. We
worked hard. We were busy all the time. There
wasn't a lot of foolishness going on.